Poverty varies between and within countries, as indicated by the global Multidimensional. Poverty Index (MPI) inequality from the global to household levels, which includes the regional, national, and subnational levels (Oxford Poverty & Human Development Initiative, 2019). A case-by-case analysis of poverty gives a new understanding of the poverty situation and offers a better picture than that indicated by the global threshold. Multiple scholarly researches have been carried out on the role of microfinance institutions and poverty reduction in Ghana as a whole as well as in regions but the results produced are often conflicting or inconsistent with one another, showing the particularity of each of the 16 regions and 260 metropolitan, district assemblies or municipalities. This explains why the case of Adentan municipality in Greater Accra, Ghana is unique and demands an independent investigation. To start with, poverty is a reality in Adentan municipality. It is multidimensional (socially, economically, culturally, institutionally, psychologically, and more). It manifests itself in varied forms (deprivation, income inequality, disempowerment, physical, mental, emotional, and marginalization). Malaria and Tuberculosis (TB), adolescent girls who may possibly become single parents, commercial sex workers/single mothers, the elderly (65+ years), the physically challenged, drug addicts, and smallholder farmers. This group of humans constitutes part of the majority of poor people in the municipality and vulnerability may wear away their resilience when faced with the adverse effects of poverty. Furthermore, the municipality is prone to natural and anthropogenic risks or shocks that make people vulnerable to poverty. For example, it is located within an average altitude of 58 meters above sea level making it more exposed to natural risks like floods. The most affected areas are Aben Link, AbenWoha, Commandos, Japan Motors, and New Legon, which are located around the Nugbete River. These are mostly communities characterized by poor road networks and poor drainage systems. As for human-induced risks, many clandestine structures/slums exist in the municipality, especially in places like Adjiringanor, Ashiyie, Approtech, and Adentan villages, which are characterized by overcrowding, squatters, single parenthood, unemployment, and low-income earners thus, making it a favorable ground for cohabitation, teenage pregnancy, and robbery.
